[trademark] Add details about submission (#692)
chipsalliance/Caliptra: doc/trademark/CaliptraTrademarkAuditProcess.md

Reviewer: Fix link to document that was moved to TM folder
```suggestion
This document defines the process to be used by auditors to determine if the vendor’s products meet the Caliptra trademark requirements. Auditors should focus on analyzing vendor architecture and implementation of Caliptra on vendor products, rather than testing of vendor products. Vendors should complete the requirements in this document to request permission to use the Caliptra Trademark. The [Checklist and evaluation methodology document](https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/blob/main/doc/trademark/CaliptraChecklistAndEvaluationMethodology.md) can be used by auditors to determine if the vendor is complying with the Caliptra Integration Specification. To demonstrate compliance with the Caliptra Integration Requirements, vendors must provide necessary collateral to auditors for each integration requirement, as defined in the checklist. Auditors must review the materials and prepare a Statement of Conformance that attests to integrator compliance with all requirements. The main security functionality of Caliptra as a silicon RoT, when correctly integrated, is to:
```

  * **Process**: The initial IP manufacturer engages an accredited laboratory to evaluate all verifiable requirements at the subsystem or IP level. The laboratory produces an initial evaluation technical report covering those specific requirements.
  * **Final Integration**: When the IP is integrated into a final system or SoC, the final integrator engages an accredited laboratory to evaluate only the remaining integration requirements that could not be verified at the IP stage.
  * **Submission**: When applying for final trademark compliance, the final integrator must submit both evaluation technical reports. The initial IP manufacturer is responsible for providing their evaluation technical report and laboratory details so the final integrator's laboratory can submit the complete audit package.
* RTL Exemption and Diff Reusability
  * Integrators can submit RTL diffs for exemption using GitHub issues in the applicable repository ([caliptra-rtl](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-rtl) or [caliptra-ss](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-ss)) using the "RTL Trademark Exemption Diff" issue template.

>   * **Case-by-Case Reusability**: Whether or not an approved RTL diff can be reused as-is for future audits/products must be determined on a case-by-case basis. Just because one product receives an RTL diff exemption does not guarantee future audits can roll it forward automatically, even for identical diffs.

Reviewer: This seems like it should be moved after the next bullet point, so that it can reference the scope-of-approval in regards to reuse.

>   * **Scope of Approval Statement**: Any review and approval of an RTL diff by the Caliptra Working Group (WG) must include an explicit *scope of approval statement*. This statement will clarify the boundaries and conditions under which that particular diff can be referred to and reused by future product audits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * **Scope of Approval Statement**: Any review and approval of an RTL diff by the Caliptra Working Group (WG) must include an explicit *scope of approval statement*. This statement will clarify the boundaries and conditions under which that particular diff can be referred to and reused by future product audits.
  * **Case-by-Case Reusability**: Whether or not an approved RTL diff can be reused as-is for future audits/products must be determined on a case-by-case basis, and be subject to the *scope of approval*. Just because one product receives an RTL diff exemption does not guarantee future audits can roll it forward automatically, even for identical diffs.
```

## Typical Process for Obtaining the Caliptra Trademark

1. The manufacturer contacts a licensed laboratory.  
2. The laboratory and manufacturer agree on terms and sign a contract to help respond to the documentation required within the checklist and methodology document.  

> 3. The laboratory and manufacturer communicate and jointly, when aligned, provide an application for Caliptra Trademark Usage for a TOE to Caliptra Trademark Owner TAC, signed by both laboratory and manufacturer.  

Reviewer 2: is this referring to the "participation form"? https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/blob/main/doc/trademark/Caliptra%20Conformance%20Program%20-%20Participation%20Form.pdf
does this need to happen so early in the process?  i think it would be better to submit this along with the completed technical report at step 6 below (i.e. AFTER testing).

Reviewer 2: also that form has no signature field for the labratory.

Author: I agree, it is referring to the participation form. I added a place for the lab to sign and moved this step to later in the process

> 4. It is the manufacturer's responsibility to provide a self-assessment of why the checklist requirements are fulfilled, together with other necessary information for the laboratory. If the manufacturer requires an RTL change exemption(s), they must create an issue in the applicable repository ([caliptra-rtl](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-rtl) or [caliptra-ss](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-ss)) using the provided "RTL Trademark Exemption Diff" issue template.

Author: Remove self-assessment and use "evidence" instead

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. It is the manufacturer's responsibility to provide evidence of why the checklist requirements are fulfilled, together with other necessary information to the laboratory. If the manufacturer requires an RTL change exemption(s), they must create an issue in the applicable repository ([caliptra-rtl](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-rtl) or [caliptra-ss](https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-ss)) using the provided "RTL Trademark Exemption Diff" issue template.
```

5. The laboratory evaluates and assesses the TOE using the provided filled-in checklist and the evaluation methodology. Iterations with the manufacturer are expected until all issues are resolved, as judged by the laboratory.  

> 6. The laboratory produces an evaluation technical report, using an evaluation technical report template and, with manufacturer's permission, sends it to the Caliptra Trademark Owner at <caliptra-tm@lists.chipsalliance.org>.

Reviewer: I would split this into two parts:

1. The laboratory produces an evaluation technical report
2. The manufacturer sends the report to caplitra-tm email when ready to request a trademark. 

This does imply a way to confirm that the SRP actually generated the report, but precludes any confusion over who is responsible for disseminating the report.

Reviewer 2: for OCP SAFE the reports are signed, so that concern does not exist there. In the case here, the format does not lend itself to a convenient signature in the same way (unless we switch to using a JWS format here, in which case we can use the exact same signing mechanism)

Reviewer: I don't think the entire report is going to fit into that format, but perhaps the table entry for the ApprovedProductsRegistry.md file could be presented in a convenient format, signed, and included in the report.

Author: We talked about a similar process yesterday. I don't think I want to put anything about a signed OCP-SAFE-like certificate until have have something more concrete for it. In the meantime, should we say the report should be submitted by the lab?

Reviewer: I would rather do some out-of-band confirmation with the labs until a better process is available. Keeping the ownership of the submission step unambiguous is too important, IMO.

Author: Sounds good to me. I separated the steps

> 6. The laboratory produces an evaluation technical report, using an evaluation technical report template and sends it to the Caliptra Trademark Owner at <caliptra-tm@lists.chipsalliance.org>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. The laboratory produces an evaluation technical report, using an evaluation technical report template and, with manufacturer's permission, sends it to the Caliptra Trademark Owner at <caliptra-tm@lists.chipsalliance.org>.
```
there is a lot of anxiety among vendors that the labs might submit unilaterally.

      * New threats have emerged that were not considered in the Caliptra Trademark Process, and that critically effects the security.
  * **Suggestion**: There is validity time granted for each Caliptra Trademark usage.  
  * **Suggestion**: Caliptra 1.X will in time be replaced by Caliptra 2.X with PQC compliance. A date will be set for when the grant of using Caliptra trademark with Caliptra 1.X will no longer be given because it doesn't support PQC algorithms.  After that date, no other Calitpra 1.X trademarks will be given.

> * Multi-Stage Audit Process for Partially Compliant IP

Reviewer 3: Keysight is seeing multi-stage audit situations where SoC vendors will tape out a chip with Caliptra then hand it over to their customers who ultimately want to achieve the full Caliptra TM.  

The wording in this section is geared towards pre-silicon IP vendors, which is also a possible scenario, but we haven't come across this yet.  A suggestion is to change "IP" -> "IP or SoC" in the existing text to make it clearer that both scenarios are valid for this multi-stage audit process.

Reviewer: filed as [https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/issues/714](https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/issues/714), will be addressed in a future PR.

  * A multi-stage audit process is permitted for cases where an initial manufacturer creates a partially compliant IP intended for integration into a larger system.

>   * **Process**: The initial IP manufacturer engages an accredited laboratory to evaluate all verifiable requirements at the subsystem or IP level. The laboratory produces an initial evaluation technical report covering those specific requirements.

Reviewer 3: We have gotten feedback from a SoC vendor stating that having something similar to the "approved products registry" for SoCs that have undergone partial audits is critical from a business perspective.  A public facing record of which products are covered enables product differentiation.

Reviewer: @nicolefern is the issue that a product will be taped-out, built, and sold without the integrator performing identity and/or secure-boot key provisioning? Or are there other use-cases? It's not practical to provide endorsement of conformance to arbitrary subsets of requirements, do you think it would be sufficient to split out the physical design requirements from the provisioning requirements? That would only provide one recognized intermediate level of certification that may not apply to soft-IPs though.

Reviewer: filed as [https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/issues/714](https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/issues/714), will be addressed in a future PR.

  * **Final Integration**: When the IP is integrated into a final system or SoC, the final integrator engages an accredited laboratory to evaluate only the remaining integration requirements that could not be verified at the IP stage.

>   * **Submission**: When applying for final trademark compliance, the final integrator must submit both evaluation technical reports. The initial IP manufacturer is responsible for providing their evaluation technical report and laboratory details so the final integrator's laboratory can submit the complete audit package.

Reviewer 3: How about "Caliptra Pre-Trademark" as a name for what the applicant achieves after completing an audit with partial compliance to the requirements?

Reviewer 3: Additional ideas for names:
- Caliptra Integration-ready
- Caliptra Audit-ready
- Caliptra trademark-ready
- Interim Caliptra trademark 
- Caliptra Interim
- Partial Caliptra Integration

Reviewer: filed as [https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/issues/714](https://github.com/chipsalliance/Caliptra/issues/714), will be addressed in a future PR.

4. The laboratory and manufacturer communicate and jointly, when aligned, provide an [application](Caliptra%20Conformance%20Program%20-%20Participation%20Form.pdf) for Caliptra Trademark Usage for a TOE to Caliptra Trademark Owner TAC, signed by both laboratory and manufacturer. The manufacturer sends the signed application to the Caliptra Trademark Owner at <caliptra-tm@lists.chipsalliance.org>. Note that this application form is also used to sign up for the Caliptra Vulnerability Alerts Mailing List.
5. The laboratory evaluates and assesses the TOE using the provided filled-in checklist and the evaluation methodology. Iterations with the manufacturer are expected until all issues are resolved, as judged by the laboratory.
6. The laboratory produces an evaluation technical report using the evaluation technical report template.

> 7. The manufacturer sends the completed evaluation technical report to the Caliptra Trademark Owner at <caliptra-tm@lists.chipsalliance.org>.

Author: Include contact info for the lab in the email
